---
layout: post
title:  "A rant of a sole wannabe game developer and the big art style dillema"
date:   2022-09-16 22:27:51 +0100
categories: post blog games art 2d 3d
---
# Short off-topic note
Hi, thanks for deciding to click the link that led you here! I know that it's probably annoying and stuff, but this is my second blog post ever and I have yet to get better at it. I'm sorry, I just feel like I have to keep mentioning that or I'll die or something. Either way, in my last post I said that I'm probably going to post once a week and well, it's not going to happen as I'm way lazier than I thought. I'll try to keep it consistent at one post a month at the very least, but there's also a huge chance that I will just stop doing this whatsoever - I like to drop stuff out of the blue, even things that are mostly done. Also the title probably won't even fit the post. I kinda got steered away from the main topic I wanted to cover, sorry about that. With that out of the way, let's get to the meat of it, shall we?

## Rant rant rant
That's going to sound really weird, especially coming from me, a 22 year old zoomer (or am I a millenial? I don't know anymore, the terms are so mixed up that I couldn't give less fucks, really), but back in my day making games alone wasn't even a possibility for many of us. Especially in Poland, my home country - everyone's poor english skills, low end hardware, the Internet that wasn't as popular as it is today and all that. Of course there was modding, mapping or whatever but it never was the same thing as making something of your own. Growing up, I didn't even have a PC. What I had though, was a PS1 with lots of different games, mostly japanese, in japanese. Some of these happened to be the UK PlayStation Magazine's demo disks though, which sometimes contained a lot of indie games made by random people in their basements all over the world. I remember that the whole thing was called Net Yaroze, and while I didn't know it back then, these would be the games that made me want to make my own sometime later. I kept playing them over and over right until ~2006 when one day my father brought a brand new PS2. It wasn't anything special at the time, but I remember that I was really happy about it. Anyway, that was when I completely forgot about the weird homebrew games and moved on to the "real" ones. Not that the games on the PS1 were any worse, I just liked playing the demos as they provided the most variety to me. A few years later I finally got a PC with access to the Internet and that's when I learned what the Net Yaroze games really were. As you might guess, that was the point where I knew that I had to make a game myself someday - because if these people managed to make a console game of all things, then how hard making a PC game can be? Oh, how wrong I was. Going back to the present, indie game development has became a subject so popular that nobody's surprised when they hear about a single person releasing a successful game, and while this is a good thing, I also kind of hate it at the same time. Well, enough of this boring little "backstory" of mine, I can't run out of all of my potential topics so soon.

## The life of a depressed lone developer
So here we are. The year is 2022, game engines are freely available and well documented, free, and I have a PC that can somewhat handle the tasks of 3D modeling, programming, texturing, music production and all that stuff. How come I never actually released a game before? It seemed so easy, right? Jeez, now that I'm thinking - I never even got close to having anything actually playable. Well, maybe that one project I've shown on YouTube, but I seriously doubt it counts. Anyway, where's the problem? Let me tell you.

First off, hesitation. This is the biggest killer of mine right now. Do I make a 3D yume nikki clone? Nah, that'd take too much time with my ambitions. A 2D multiplayer roguelite shooter? Nope, I don't have the time to actually learn drawing and pixel art. A 3D walking simulator? I'd have to get really creative, nobody would play something that has been done a thousand times already. I hope you're starting to notice the pattern here. Besides, these were all projects that I started and even went far into them but dropped because various reasons. I could keep on going, but I'd probably wear down my keyboard that way. Also besides that, there's the thought of whatever I make not being original enough at the back of my head. If that wasn't enough, I'll add something to top it all off - as a perfectionist, no matter what or how much I make, it's never enough. Growing up with ambitious games, I believe that I've learned what makes a good piece of media, and with just that I buried the possibility of me ever releasing a successful game. Not that I know how to make a perfect game, though whenever I hear a song, sound, or even when I see a stupid fucking texture, there's a huge chance that it'll make me imagine a whole scene based just on that one thing. And with that, a specific feeling starts to accompany me. Some time ago I'd say that it was excitement, right now it is a feeling of incompleteness, or maybe... hopelesness? I don't know how to call it, really. I'm no movie director or Hideo Kojima, I'm all on my own. Besides, even if somebody wanted to help me make my dream come true - I can't just tell somebody what to do, I'm not a bossy type of person. I'm too much of a pussy, afraid to hurt anyone's feelings. That's also why I'm not really keen on the idea of working with others. I always have my own vision of the game or whatever, but it's mean to force something upon others, right? What if they don't like my ideas? But then, because of me giving away too much control over the project, the work I put into it becomes meaningless, just an empty shell of time spent and lost dreams. I guess that's why I'll never make a real game, there's only so much a single person can do. Oops, I didn't mean to make it so... you know. Well, maybe I lied. I don't have anyone that would enjoy listening to me complain, so excuse me - I had to do it here. Anyway, what now?

## Stuck in a loop
Right now I'm stuck inbetween a heap of choices, again. I've been making a character model lately and it's coming along smoothly, but fuck me, of course there's something wrong with it. It's too high quality. I mean, if I use a PS3-era character, all animated and textured by me then I'll have to treat all of the other assets in the same way, and I cannot afford that. I could make a MGS2 or maybe even MGS3 Snake, but that'd be too much work as well. Remember, I'm all alone after all. The next logical step down would be PS1, but I don't know if I like the idea. It has gotten a little bit too normie for my taste, and I don't want to sound like an edgelord. I just don't feel like making something that's already out there and well known. I'd prefer to be a pioneer in a some kind of way, but I guess my expectations are just too big...
To be honest, right now I feel like I'll have to make some compromises and settle on something inbetween Dreamcast and PS1 level graphics - you know, without the warpy textures and all that, just... an old looking game.

## Conclusion?
I had so much stuff that I wanted to talk about but my thoughts always ventured to the idea of me ranting so I just felt like I had to do it. I already have an idea for the next post, so I'll try to write it as soon as possible, so probably somewhere in October. I also want to redesign the whole site because using a boring premade template just isn't my thing. I've always liked the Y2K web, so I'm thinking about something like that. Maybe something in the style of Ace Combat 3? I remember that game had some fancy looking menus and all that, kinda futuristic looking. I'll have to spend some time looking for something I really like because there's so many of these sites, old media or games to draw inspiration from. If you like that sorta stuff, I recommend visiting Neocities - there's a ton of different websites, all in the style of the old web, all reeking with personality - something that the modern Internet really lacks. Personally, I love the ones with music the most. Makes the site seem like a whole world to explore.
